## tldr

0. **What to Learn?**: If you don't know which programming language to learn, seek help from relatives or colleagues before looking for advice from people on the internet, as they might be biased.
1. **Make a Roadmap**: This part can last a maximum of 2 weeks. Start by listing your practical goals (What is my final objective?) and document what you need to know for each part. Then create a roadmap with specific steps. For each important step, add a final project. It does not need to be clear right now. You can share it with other more advanced people to get feedback.
2. **Collect Resources**: This part can also last a maximum of 2 weeks. The goal is to collect resources that match your roadmap. Be flexible; it is okay to change resources along the way.
3. **Take Notes Along the Way**: The best way to maintain your level is to take time to make your own notes so that if you are absent for a long time, you can quickly recover most of your level. Also, learn good practices; they help you at any level. Stop coding only. You have to realize that the best way to practice coding is to focus more on things around the code.
4. **Learn the Basics**: Always start with the basics. Even if you start with a crash course, learn the basics anyway and as soon as possible. It will help you understand the programming language better and solve errors. You do not need to master all the basics since you will come back to them later (and often).
5. **Engage in Projects**: Projects are fundamental to anchor your knowledge since they require you to use many simple concepts that seem detached at the beginning. By doing your project, you will need to go back to the basics and find resources to complete your knowledge.
6. **Revisit the Basics**: After projects, you will understand better the importance of basics. Revisiting the basics is not only rereading the documentation or redoing tutorials but also helping others, teaching, creating resources, or joining communities.
7. **Collaborate**: Working with others helps in many aspects such as being exposed to different coding styles, improving problem-solving skills, discovering new things, and having feedback. If you are not willing to collaborate (or you can't), simply put your code online so other people can see or use it (share it!).